every time I think to myself you know
what for a little while I'm not going to
make videos about veganism I'm going to
talk about some other issues there are
really issues that that come to the fore
that I feel compelled I ought to talk
about especially given who my audience
is I've already made several different
videos talking about direct action
everywhere uh I'm going to provide a
link below this video to those earlier
discussions some of them are fairly
lengthy and in depth and give a more
systematic overview of who they are how
they were founded what their principles
or core concerns are this video instead
is going to deal with one specific issue
depart from a specific philosophical and
practical question why is it the direct
action everywhere thinks that making a
display of weakness is strength to be
slightly snippy about it um why do they
think that breaking down in tears in a
shopping mall or in a restaurant that
ranting uncontrollably showing that
you're overwhelmed that you're weak why
do they think that's going to bring
about social change now I'm not saying
this in a mean-spirited way but DXE has
contrived this as a political method of
what they call disruption it's very
different if you're talking about like
here on YouTube I see completely sincere
or videos of people sitting down talking
about their feelings talking about how
they're overwhelmed with their
relationship with their boyfriend or
their boss or their problems if I'm
completely fine with that and I love you
know as I say most of that is completely
sincere it's not contrived and it's not
being presented as a political
methodology to change the world you know
if I come on this channel and talk to
you about my divorce it's not in any way
comparable to what direct action
everywhere is doing even if I break down
crying on camera I don't think that's
happened
on this channel I don't think I've wept
on camera for you but he said I'm not
opposed to that I'm not opposed to the
open display of emotion what's strange
to me many aspects of this exchange to
me direct action everywhere make these
over-the-top claims about saving the
world and about having a methodology
that is based on the study of social
science research and learning the
lessons of political history and they
then vaguely allude to Gandhi in India
the abolition of slavery in the United
States the loot anti-vietnam war protest
they'll kind of allude to a bunch of
things really quickly with very shallow
gloss they like to mention the Arab
Spring I don't know if that's gone at a
style yet take a look at the Arab Spring
man it's been a disaster a humanitarian
nightmare resulting in Civil War and
what have you I don't know if they're
still showing the Arab Spring as a as a
successful example of social change they
want to imitate any way I roll my eyes
at that a great deal and I wonder if
they've read anything about any examples
but anyway they throw these out really
quickly and then they show you their
methodology and the hat videos in the
internet were they display exactly their
ideal of how a how a disruption is
supposed to go there's a sort of glaring
absence of logical lines connecting any
of these points of reference you're left
to connect the dots like oh yeah Gandhi
therefore breaking down weeping in a
restaurant is a great idea as a great
method of social change oh yeah yeah the
abolition of slavery and the Arab Spring
therefore showing up in a restaurant
ranting uncontrollably holding up a sign
Breaking out we've been showing people
how emotionally pfizer that's going to
be researched it well pardon me but at
what stage did the United States
abolitionist movement use these methods
at what stage did Gandhi Gandhi wrote it
enormous length about his method of
pursuing an achieving social change at
what stage did he endorse this method or
anything like it the answer is never and
this I mean
this troubles me on many different
levels if you watch this channel regular
you know I've researched the history of
Asia from many different angles I would
have liked to have been a specialist in
just one country or just want to reach
it in Asia but I haven't had that luxury
so I have actually studied the political
history of India also to some extent
right now I'm doing Japan and the past
have also worked on Cambodia in many
other places for a relatively fun and
indeed shocking article there's there's
a famous famous article that was
published in commentary magazine a
commentary magazine is a magazine I only
know about because of Woody Allen Woody
Allen used to make jokes about it used
to it he used to you know kind of insult
this magazine as somewhat pretentious um
source information but if you google it
you'll get it really quickly because
this is still a famous article it's
titled the Gandhi nobody knows so if you
just do a Google for commentary magazine
Gandhi expose you'll get you'll get this
article right away that article will
contain many facts about Mohandas Gandhi
that will probably shocked you even if
you're cynical about politics it'll
reveal to you the extent to which what
people tend to say about Gandhi and I
came to a left-wing people people who
are peace activists all kinds of people
The Legend of Gandhi is is remarkably
different from the historical reality of
Gandhi but you know for me that article
even though it reveals many scandals and
shocking things it doesn't i think deal
with the the core issue here which is
that you know Gandhi's political praxis
which I see cynically referred to by
people at direct action everywhere it's
actually set out in a multi-volume work
called non-violence in peace and war and
if you compare the first volume to the
second volume there's a tremendous
change because Gandhi himself actually
lost faith in his own political
methodology his ideas changed between
the first volume in the second volume
now I read that many many years ago
the core idea that Gandhi advanced and
that people in India really got
sincerely excited about the time was
that his method of non-violence was a
method of warfare it was war but then
once you were in the position of
superior power you would hold back from
actually slaughtering your enemies from
actually engaging in violence so it's
not at all what people imagine it to be
now that method you can say it's a good
method of a bad method for India at that
time but it was a method devised for
situation where Gandhi felt confident
that the vast majority of people in the
population of India were opposed to the
British Empire so they were an absolute
majority they were from his perspective
they were ninety percent of the
population or ninety-eight percent of
the population whether or not that's
true i mean you know maybe they were
only eighty-five percent I don't know
you can look into exactly what
percentage population were really
supporting independence the british
empire but don't list it was a huge
majority of muslims of hindus of all
kinds of people in india at that time so
he felt in that circumstance they were
in the position to demand change to
organize and amass themselves and the
depressed for change like an army
imitating military methods which a lot
of people in india the time were very
positive about it was a very pro war
feeling in the air in india because the
way india experience world war one was
completely different from the way you're
up did for one thing course none of the
battlefields weren't india but the
Indian perspective on war at that time
was not what you might expect and Gandhi
himself you know was very pro war as a
younger man when Gandhi was living in
South Africa he was actively trying to
join the british army to fight for the
british empire not against it very
interesting psychologically and
politically look at all this stuff is
from memory and none of this is scripted
him i'm sorry the these people at DXE
who want to be your great intellectual
leaders there they're painfully ignorant
of exactly the stuff they choose to
speechify about this isn't my chosen
area of expertise or interest but i'm
better informed than wayne see on guys
I'm sorry he's writing all of these
subjects is but now at best amazingly
bad author
but anyway he's got fans it's cool I
shall I don't like Kanye West either but
millions of people like Kanye West so
whatever it is what it is um sorry so I
was soggy mcgann DS overall approach to
non-violence in peace and war this type
of methodology even looking over all the
bizarre contradictions then it even
looking even in choosing to ignore
Gandhi's own loss of faith in the method
because Gandhi in volume 2 of that work
is already saying that he was wrong and
he regrets endorsing this method because
in his words he thought India was taking
the road of the non-violence of the
strong but in fact they were trapped on
the road of the non-violence of the week
in discussing this he attacks exactly
the type of methods that direct action
ever uses Gandhi explains that he's
completely opposed to putting yourself
in the position of a beggar of asking
for social change from someone more
powerful than yourself that his model of
non-violence was only of putting
yourself position of the stronger of
having the ability to threaten violence
and then holding then holding back from
actually doing it so look to give DXE
some credit and to shift to another but
reasonably profound aspect of this
puzzle direct action everywhere are also
into challenging the normalcy of
meat-eating that was something I was
thinking about just today again so this
method if that's your point if you want
to scream and weep in public and show
extreme emotional reactions because
you're outraged that meat eating is
normal and given all the intellectual
pretensions of DXE their claims to using
social science research learning for
lessons of history cetera what is the
basis for thinking that this type of
so-called interruption in people's
normal lives will actually challenge the
social normalcy of meat-eating
leather-wearing etc it's very clear to
me that the effect of having someone
display extreme emotionless way like
Priya herself like the founders
themselves going into a restaurant the
screaming incoherently weeping holding
up a sign etc it does not challenge the
normalcy of mediating it reaffirms the
normalcy of meat-eating and shows us
vegans to be abnormal to be crazy most
people will see that and think oh these
people are psychologically abnormal
these people have some kind of emotional
or psychological problem that makes them
react this way to something that
everyone else regards as normal and
acceptable and they may not be wrong we
have to face up to this also guys I mean
god I remember that video with a bite
size vegan weeping about the death of
her dog and having an emotional
breakdown it's real but I mean I've
talked to the vegans about it's like
at what point in this movement can
we look at the relationship vegans have
with their household pets and say hey
this is kind of messed up like
psychologically like in terms of vegan
philosophy of practice like this is not
really something we should be
celebrating like dogs evolved in the
wilds they didn't evolve to be a
decoration for your carpet like you know
our standard of what is normal in human
animal relationships has to based on
wild animals not on domesticated animals
that you know even if it's a rescue dog
even if whatever the excuse ER history
is like these emotional relationships
this is not the core of veganism as a
movement and doesn't even fit into the
social model veganism very well sorry
one controversy leads to another here so
yeah the people who regard vegans as
crazy or as having an abnormal emotional
attachment animals they're not a hundred
percent wrong as some of us fall into
that category some vegans are crazy cat
ladies and crazy guy you know bless
their hearts in the right place I'm not
here to hate on you guys but yeah the
appearance that people are crazy this
way uh but if we're supposedly learning
from history is this how cigarettes went
from being normal to abnormal if your
point is to challenge the normalcy of
meat-eating there was a time not too
long ago when
people smoke cigarettes in the church in
the hospital in the military they used
to smoke cigarettes sitting around the
boardroom table looking at maps all
those places are non-smoking now it used
to be normal for pregnant mothers to be
smoking cigarettes during the alkaline
everything else these things were
challenged how and why science is a
portent part of its social stigma is a
part of it public education part of it
you can draw up a whole diagram but yeah
there's been a dramatic change I would
say there's also been a dramatic change
in attitudes towards alcohol consumption
and I think that that change is still
ongoing I think we're going to continue
to change your attitudes but there's
almost no place in any of those examples
whether it's India gaining its
independence the abolition of slavery
changing attitudes towards alcohol and
cigarettes there is almost no place in
this for these overwrought emotional
breakdowns which are the core
methodology that direct action
everywhere supports promotes and defines
their movement by so to me this is an
open contradiction and I'll just to get
one more caveat it's true like with
cigarette smoking it's possible that
there was a documentary film that
interviewed someone who is dying of lung
cancer it's possible that there's some
role for this type of emotional gnashing
of teeth emotional outpouring it's true
I'm not going to say there's zero role
for that in India's revolt against the
British Empire there's some role for
tear-jerking accounts of people whose
husbands and sons have been killed by
the bayonets of racial sure there's some
role for salacious emotional anecdotes
some but if DXE has these claims to
learning from the lessons of history at
social science research how is it
possible they've taken in this
constellation of stars all these
unrelated points with no dog to line
connecting them and the only lesson
they've taken from it and the
methodology they've pulled out of it is
walk into a restaurant break down
weeping etc it's pathetic and it has
that worst possible combination of being
pathetic embarrassing discrediting the
movement
making us all look crazy not getting
results and the same time being
tremendously self-important
intellectually pretentious and asking
for your donations now hey man there are
two aspects to this you know you can
curse the darkness or you know you can
try to light up a candle ultimately you
know I'm saying this stuff both DXE
because I wanted to better than them
myself and I want to see other vegans
get organized do something better do
something real